There are four general types of operating systems. 
Their use depends on the type of computer and the type of applications that will be run on those computers.

1)Real-time operating systems (RTOS) :
 These are used to control machinery, scientific instruments, and industrial systems. In general, the user does not have much control over the functions performed by RTOS.
 Ex:eCos, LynxOS, QNX

2)Single-user, single-task operating system:
  This OS allow one user to do one thing at a time. An example of a single-user, single-task operating system is the operating system used by personal digital assistants (PDAs), also known as handheld computers.
  Ex:PalmOS- an OS used for mobile OS and discontinued in 1996.

3)Single-user, multi-tasking operating system:
 This OS allow a single user to simultaneously run multiple applications on their computer. This is the type of operating system found on most personal desktop and laptop computers. 
  Ex:i)Microsoft Windows--
        Core of the OS components like kernel, file system, memory manager etc are written in C. Most of the          User mode components like Security, management utils are mix of C and C++.
     ii)Mac OS--Cocoa mostly in Objective-C. Kernel written in C, some parts in assembly.Much of Cocoa is 	implemented in Objective-C, an object-oriented language that is compiled to run at incredible speed.
	Objective-C is a superset of C.
     iii)Linux--kernel in C, A lot of the rest (especially the desktop GUIs) in C++. And everything else is 	written in all other languages the programmer felt was preferable (Python, Java, C, C++, Haskell, 	Scheme, Bash, JavaScript, Common Lisp, Scala, Clojure, Erlang, OCaml, etc.) as it is an open source and 	people can modify it.

4)Multi-user operating systems allow multiple users to simultaneously use the resources on a single computer. 
Ex:Unix-Early on in its development, Unix was rewritten in the C programming language. As a result, Unix has always been closely tied to C and then later C++. 